---
layout: post
title: Transcript Interview Covid Protests with Hui Xu
author: Felix Rumbach, Sarah Peters, Esther Lichtenfeld
---

**What happened in the Foxconn factory in
Zhengzhou in October?**

Over the past two months, two different incidents appeared on Chinese
social media regarding Foxconn. The first one being, the escaping of
workers from the factory in Zhengzhou. The second one is the unrest in
this same factory. The escaping was possible because most of the migrant
workers at Foxconn come from Henan province, the province the factory is
located at, so there hometowns are relatively close. Their main problem
was the wave of Covid infections that hit Zhengzhou in October. At the
Foxconn factory, there are tens of thousands of migrant workers. They
are manufacturing the iPhone 14 among other things, and right now it is
peak season for Foxconn and Apple. So despite of the outbreak, the
workers were expected to continue to work even if they got infected with
Covid to complete the Apple\'s order. When workers realized that more
and more of them got infected, they became scared because (they have
received a lot of misinformation about Covid from the government
propaganda and know little about the latest characteristic of
Omicron\...?) their dormitories were closed and they would not get clear
information about the proceedings. Even though they have to do a PCR
test on a daily basis, \....? But they could not get clear, official
information about the situation, so a lot of rumors spread among the
workers, some saying that some of the infected workers died. So a lot
rumors scared them. The second \[problem\] is, China is implementing a
zero-Covid-strategy. So once their is a case, the whole building or area
will be closed down. Under lockdown, the workers were not provided
enough food and medical supplies. So, many problems were occurring and
workers were really scared. Many of them decided to escape from the
factory and try to go back to their hometowns. However, public transport
was closed down, so they couldn\'t take buses or trains to go back home.
So they tried to get there on foot. But they sometimes couldn\'t find
the way home,because all regular roads are blocked and those who need to
pass must be checked with a green health code, so they just crossed the
fields and passed the small villages there. For some of them, it took a
ten, twenty, or even thirty hours walk to get back home. \[It was even
more complicated by the people (Foxconn employees and/or government
officials like policemen?) who tried to prevent them from leaving the
factory.\] Also, they could not get enough food on the way, so villagers
provided some fast food or water when workers passed by. When these
stories spread on social media and people found out that about 10.000 or
20.000 workers escaped the factory, it quickly became a hot topic. The
government then started to provide some transportation so the workers
could get to their hometowns. This happened at the beginning of
October. 

**What happened before these mass escapes that made the workers so
anxious about their situation?**

There is no scientifical knowledge or information on omicron so people
are very scared of covid. Foxconn was under pressure to deliver those
Iphones orders as soon as possible. They didn\'t want to lock down the
factory even when some workers got infected they request other workers
to keep working. The Foxconn Factory is huge with several hundred
thousand workers. They were not able to provide sufficient health care
to deal with crisis. Foxconn is important for the  export economy, so
also the government didn\'t want to close the factory.But Foxcon didn\'t
inform the other workers about the covid infactions inside the factory.
This lack of information created room for rumors. People heard workers
are dying from covid. 

**You also worked in Chinese factories, how was your experience?**

The first factory I worked at was Foxconn in ~~Chongqing~~ (hab nicht
richtig verstanden in welcher stadt) where I manufactured hp laptops
working on the assembly line. The challenge for me was repeating the
same actions every 10 or 12 seconds for 10 or even 12 hours a day. The
payment in the western city of ~~Chongqing~~ wasn\'t as much as in other
factories in the coastal areas. To earn enough money the workers had to
work everyday. After working there for about 2 months I became suicidal,
I felt like I was loosing hope of life because of this daily meaningles
work, everyday you stand at the assembly line repeating the same
movements. I hated it but I had another choice but other workers don\'t
have another choice than to work there their whole life. There is a lot
suicide happening at Foxconn. 

Foxconn couldn\'t hire enough workers in the area so the department of
education requested that students from apprenticeship schools to get
internships at the Foxconn factories. Although they are just 16 years
old they have to work on those assembly lines. It was called an
internship  but actually theses students can not learn any skills at
Foxconn they are just like working machines. 

**What is the closed lop system?**

In the context of covid the factories and the government decided that
workers will stay inside the factories to reduce the chance if them
getting infected. So workers work in the factories in day time and at
night the sleep in the factories. The problem is that there are not
enough dormitories for all workers so they have to sleep in the canteen
or in the workshop and lie down on the floor. There is no sufficient
infrastrucutre,no showerrooms, not enough food, many workers eat instant
noodles, everyday. They spend there whole lives at the factory in the
name of communist progression.I cannot imagine that kind of life.
That\'s why they protested this Novermber..

**Do you think these strict covid rules are necessary?**

To me they are really not necessary, it\'s just ridiculous. These
policies are not based on scientific research and they ignore peoples
realities. In the beginning in 2020 and even 2021, before omicron, the
strict zero covid policy was acceptable for the Chinese people. But to
catch up with the new omicron variant, which spreads  much faster, the
governemnt had to adopt more extreme measures. Millions of people were
put under lockdown, isolation camps have been build. In my wife\'s and
parents in law\'s area in Guangzhou there are 6000-7000 new infections
recently \[in a day\] so the government imposed a lockdown. They cannot
leave the apartment for several weeks they have difficulties to buy
food. These policies have cause many tragedies. More and more people
realize that these measures are unscientifical and unsustainable. So
finally a lot of protest occur people are angry and desperate, they
don\'t have another choice but to struggle. Especially in Guangzhou in
the past month every night there are scattered protest in the living
area of migrant workers.

**49:40 According to what we see on international media, protest in
China are not really possible, have there been protest against these
Covid restrictions before?**

Yes, before October, protests were happening for example in March and
April in Shenzhen and Shanghai \[during the lockdowns there\]. Workers
there wanted to go back to work, also there was excessive PCR testing,
which people thought was mostly a waste of time. But these protests were
\[disconnected\], it wasn\'t a wave, it was more like a case by case
reaction. Different incidents happened in different localities, but
there was no connection between them, and they were small in scale and
mostly lasted for one night only. Since October, especially after the
incidents at Zhegzhou Foxconn, there were protests on a larger scale.
Recently, Guangzhou has become a center of protest, too. There\'s a lot
of garment industry there. SHEIN headquarter is also in Guangzhou. These
recent protest are different from those we saw earlier this year. The
scale is much bigger, they often involve hundreds and thousands of
workers. Also, they often are more violent because they have direct
conflict with the police. Lately, there has been unrest every night.
Almost all police officers in Guangzhou have been mobilized to crackdown
on this protest movement. Now, they are missing in other places. So,
Guangzhou police started recruiting students from the police colleage to
fill the gap. We didn\'t see a continuous protest movement in China at
such a big scale for decades now. 

**56:00 Do you think the protests and strikes have a chance to change
working conditions, loosen covid restrictions or maybe even threaten
Xi\'s regime?**

I think the recent protests have a great potential, because they involve
both workers and the middle class. After the CCP\'s 20th party congress
\[which took place in October\], Xi Jinping appeared to be the
unchallenged emperor of China. He seemed to control all the power. \[He
probably secured his position within the elite\], but the last week
showed that he faces real considerable challenges from the bottom. I
believe that as long as he insists on the zero Covid policy, the
challenges will grow because the lives of almost all people in China are
heavily affected by this policy, or even destroyed. That provides
opportunities for \[inter-\]class solidarity. People can use different
forms of protest, and, put together, this movement poses a political
threat to Xi Jinping\'s regime. I think he has received the messages
that his zero-covid policy has caused structural damange to the economy
and society and today, Guangzhou govenrment took a very quick decision
to ease the restrictions in Guangzhou. We will soon see if this will
become the norm in other places as well. That shows that the protests
have sparked political reactions by the authorities, pressure from below
affected their decision making. That shows that the protests and strikes
are effective, what we see is not a top-down change of policies, it\'s a
result of a bottom-up struggle.

**1:00:00 Did Foxconn react with an improvement of working conditions?**

Now you have told us the current events on a broader scale. Switching
the focus back to Zhengzhou. Can you tell us if Foxconn has actually
reacted with an improvement of working conditions or harsher
restrictions at the factory in Zhengzhou?

I think for Foxconn it is difficult to fix the problem because they
suffer from different pressures. One is from Apple, because they need to
finish the order according to the contract, especially during the peak
season. Another pressure is from the government, because they need to
implement all the Covid-preventing policies. This has absolutely
affected the production capacity. So, they can transfer the pressure to
the workers, because they need to reduce the cost. I think, inside the
factory the workers have to work very hard and suffer from the very bad
conditions. They have to work overtime a lot. 

Another challenge for the workers is their living conditions. They stay
in different dormitories and if the workers get infected by Covid all of
the roommates will be sent to the isolation camp.* *That will bring
pressure to workers. No one takes care of them, they just live there.
There is not enough food and water and the living conditions there are
very bad, because the whole dormitory is locked down and they are not
allowed to go out. 

I guess, on such pressure from both production side and the living side,
the situation for the workers is getting worse and we can see the
workers\' anger exposed as they escape the factory or protest inside the
factory. 

Another point I would like to share is China\'s challenge for the
so-called *Global Factory-Model. *I guess, now it is time for a
reorganisation of the global supply chain. Apple is step-by-step
relocating their supply factories to South-East-Asian countries like
India and Vietnam. Right now it is a hot topic and the Foxconn-incident
may intensify this as Foxconn may speed up to relocate the supply chain.
But for the local government Foxconn is a very important company,
providing a lot tax and export. So, the government does not want Foxconn
to leave, so they need to deal with Foxconns\'s problems. The ridiculous
part is, after the mass escapes, Foxconn resumed production and they
needed the workers to come back. But they would not come. So, the
government in the whole province got the mission to recruit workers for
Foxconn. Every village and every government department needed to hire at
least one worker for Foxconn. Otherwise they themselves needed to go to
work at the assemble line for about two months. It seems ridiculous that
the public servant goes to work at Foxconn. 

So you can see the relationship between Foxconn, the government and
Apple. They have their own interests and transmit the pressure to
workers because Foxconn needs to finish the orders and the government
needs to get the tax. I think this is a structure that makes that
workers are always under bug pressure. 

1:09:00 One last thing I want to ask back: Would you say that Foxconn is
already starting to invest in other countries as in South-East-Asia is
part of a process in which China is tapping into the middle-income-trap?

It is true that Foxconn does a lot of investment in Vietnam and India.
And also, Apple is tranferring the orders to factories in Vietnam and
India. Not just those, also some Chinese suppliers of Apple have new
factories in Vietnam. That means that in China, the Global Factory Model
is ending. Learning from historical experiences in South Korea, Japan
and Taiwan, when the demographic dividend disappears it needs the
industrial upgrade. You need to upgrade your production or develop
advanced new technology or some new models like financial capital in
Hong Kong. But China is loosing these opportunities, especially after
the trade war between China and the United States. Now there is the
technological war between China and the West, so all the key
technologies imported from the West have troubles. So, I agree that
China is running in the Middle-Wage-Trap. I think it is our future and
in the near future I do not see hope to change the bad situation and the
economy is going down. There will be a lot of problems in finding jobs,
unemployment rate is dramatically increasing and the working conditions
are getting worse. And not just workers, also IT-engineers and other
service workers: everyone has to work at least ten hours or twelve
hours. Everyone has to compete with others, otherwise you can not get a
job. I think there will be a lot of challenges in the future for China. 
